UNIT -1
Introduction to Java: Java Buzzwords, Bytecode, Java
environment, Overview of Java Language, Constants, Variables
and Data Types, Operators and Expressions, Decision Making
and Branching, Decision Making and Looping, Classes, Objects,
Methods, Inheritance, Arrays, Strings, Vectors.

UNIT -2
Interfaces: Introduction, Defining, extending and implementing
Interfaces, Accessing interface variables.
Packages: Introduction, Java API packages, using system
packages, naming conventions, creating, accessing and using a
package, adding a class to a package, hiding classes, static
import.
Multithreaded Programming: Introduction, Creating Threads,
Extending the Thread class, Stopping and Blocking Threads, Life
Cycle, Thread methods,
Thread Exceptions, Priority and Synchronization, Implementing
the runnable interface, inter-thread communication.
Managing Errors and Exceptions:Introduction, Types of
Errors and Exceptions, Exception handling, Multiple catch
statements, finally, Throwing our own Exceptions, Improved
exception handling, Using exceptions for debugging.
Managing Input/ Output Files in Java: Introduction,
Streams, Stream classes, Byte Stream and Character Stream
classes, Using Streams, other useful I/O Classes, File Class,
Input/Output Exceptions, Creation of Files, Reading/Writing
Characters, Bytes and Primitive Types, Concatenating and
Buffering Files, Random Access Files, Interactive I/O.
17Java Collections: Introduction,
Classes and Algorithms.


UNIT -3
Overview of
Interfaces,
(10 Hours)
Applet Programming: Introduction, how applets differ from
applications, building applet code, applet life cycle, creating an
executable applet, Applet tag, adding an applet to a HTML file,
running applets, passing parameters, aligning the display,
displaying numerical values, getting input form the user.
AWT:AWT classes, Windows fundamentals, Working with
Frame Windows,Introducing Graphics, Working with Color,
Setting the Paint mode, Working with Fonts, Managing text
output using FontMetrics, AWT Controls, Layout Managers.
Event Handling: Two event handling mechanisms, The
delegation event model, Event classes, Sources of events,
Event listener interfaces, Using the delegation event model,
Adapter classes, Inner classes.


UNIT -4
JavaFX: JavaFX Basic Concepts, A JavaFX Application Skeleton, (10 Hours)
Compiling and Running a JavaFX Program, The Application
Thread, A Simple JavaFX Control: Label, Using Buttons and
Events, Drawing Directly on a Canvas, Using Image and
ImageView, ToggleButton, RadioButton, CheckBox, ListView,
ComboBox, TextField, ScrollPane, TreeView, Introducing Effects
and Transforms, Adding Tooltips, Disabling a Control.
JDBC: Introduction, Setting up, Connecting to and Querying a
database,
RowSet
Interface,PreparedStatements,Stored
Procedures,Transaction Processing.
Networking: Networking Basics, The Networking Classes and
Interfaces, InetAddress, Inet4Address and Inet6Address, TCP/IP
Client Sockets, URL, URLConnection, HttpURLConnection, The
URI Class, Cookies, TCP/IP Server, Sockets, Datagrams.


TEXTBOOKS
1 Programming with Java, E.Balagurusamy, 6 th edition, McGraw Hill, 2019.
2 Java -The Complete Reference, Herbert Schildt,10 th edition, Tata
3 McGraw Hill, 2017. Java-How to Program (Early Objects), Paul J.
Deitel and Harvey Deitel, 11th Edition, Pearson Education, 2018.


REFERENCES
Introduction to Java Programming (Comprehensive version),Y. Daniel
Liang, 10 th edition, Pearson Education, 2015.
Core Java: Volume II–Advanced Features,Cay S. Horstmann and Gary
Cornell, 9th edition,Pearson, 2013.
